README.md, before:

![Jaffle](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop/assets/91998347/bfba27af-04bf-48fb-8a2d-99a1965a9a25)


# 🥪 The Jaffle Shop 🦘

This is a sandbox project for exploring the basic functionality and latest features of dbt. It's based on a fictional restaurant called the Jaffle Shop that serves [jaffles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pie_iron). Enjoy!

## Create new repo from template

1. <details>
   <summary>Click the green "Use this template" button at the top of the page to create a new repository from this template.</summary>

   ![Click 'Use this template'](/.github/static/use-template.gif)
   </details>

2. Follow the steps to create a new repository.

## Platform setup

### dbt Cloud IDE (most beginner friendly)

1. Set up a dbt Cloud account and follow Step 4 in the [Quickstart instructions for your data platform](https://docs.getdbt.com/quickstarts), to connect your platform to dbt Cloud.

2. Choose the repo you created in Step 1 as the repository for your dbt Project code.

3. Click `Develop` in the top nav, you should be prompted to run a `dbt deps`, which you should do.

### dbt Cloud CLI (if you prefer to work locally)

> If you'd like to use the dbt Cloud CLI, but are a little intimidated by the terminal, we've included a task runner called, fittingly, `task`. It's a simple way to run the commands you need to get started with dbt. You can install it by following the instructions [here](https://taskfile.dev/#/installation). We'll call out the `task` based alternative to each command below.

1. Run `git clone [new repo name]` to clone your new repo to your local machine.

2. Set up a virtual environment and activate it. I like to call my virtual environment `.venv` and add it to my `.gitignore` file (we've already done this if you name your virtual environment '.venv') so that I don't accidentally commit it to the repository, but you can call it whatever you want.

   ```shell
   python3 -m venv .venv # create a virtual environment
   OR
   task venv # create a virtual environment

   source .venv/bin/activate # activate the virtual environment
   ```

3. Install the project's requirements into your virtual environment.

   ```shell
   python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt # install the project's requirements
   OR
   task install # install the project's requirements
   ```

4. [Follow steps 2 and 3 on this page](https://cloud.getdbt.com/cloud-cli) to setup dbt Cloud CLI's connection to dbt Cloud, only if you haven't already done so (we handled step 1 above and will do step 4 together next).

5. Double check that your `dbt_project.yml` is set up correctly by running `dbt list`. You should get back a list of models and tests in your project.

## Project setup

Once your development platform of choice is set up, use the following steps to get the project ready for whatever you'd like to do with it.

1. Run `task setup`.

#### OR

1. Run `dbt build` to load the sample data into your raw schema, build your models, and test your project.

2. Delete the `jaffle-data` directory now that the raw data is loaded into the warehouse.

Have fun exploring dbt! 🎉

Commit message:

Update SQLFluff + pre-commit + other dependencies using requirements.in (#11)
This is an update to allow the newest SQLFluff to run in pre-commit and
for other linting tasks. It also implements a `requirements.in` file to
compile our `requirements.txt` for installing dependencies (this is
included in this PR because I did this whilst updating SQLFluff, sorry,
not very Cool Girl Atomic Commits of me).

We decided to implement a `requirements.in` because it's built-in to
[`uv`](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) and provides a better
development experience.

README.md, after:

# 🥪 The Jaffle Shop 🦘

![Jaffle Shop Logo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop/assets/91998347/bfba27af-04bf-48fb-8a2d-99a1965a9a25)

This is a sandbox project for exploring the basic functionality and latest features of dbt. It's based on a fictional restaurant called the Jaffle Shop that serves [jaffles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pie_iron). Enjoy!

## Create new repo from template

1. <details>
   <summary>Click the green "Use this template" button at the top of the page to create a new repository from this template.</summary>

   ![Click 'Use this template'](/.github/static/use-template.gif)
   </details>

2. Follow the steps to create a new repository.

## Platform setup

### dbt Cloud IDE (most beginner friendly)

1. Set up a dbt Cloud account and follow Step 4 in the [Quickstart instructions for your data platform](https://docs.getdbt.com/quickstarts), to connect your platform to dbt Cloud.

2. Choose the repo you created in Step 1 as the repository for your dbt Project code.

3. Click `Develop` in the top nav, you should be prompted to run a `dbt deps`, which you should do.

### dbt Cloud CLI (if you prefer to work locally)

> If you'd like to use the dbt Cloud CLI, but are a little intimidated by the terminal, we've included a task runner called, fittingly, `task`. It's a simple way to run the commands you need to get started with dbt. You can install it by following the instructions [here](https://taskfile.dev/#/installation). We'll call out the `task` based alternative to each command below.

1. Run `git clone [new repo name]` to clone your new repo to your local machine.

2. Set up a virtual environment and activate it. I like to call my virtual environment `.venv` and add it to my `.gitignore` file (we've already done this if you name your virtual environment '.venv') so that I don't accidentally commit it to the repository, but you can call it whatever you want.

   ```shell
   python3 -m venv .venv # create a virtual environment
   OR
   task venv # create a virtual environment

   source .venv/bin/activate # activate the virtual environment
   ```

3. Install the project's requirements into your virtual environment.

   ```shell
   python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt # install the project's requirements
   OR
   task install # install the project's requirements
   ```

4. [Follow steps 2 and 3 on this page](https://cloud.getdbt.com/cloud-cli) to setup dbt Cloud CLI's connection to dbt Cloud, only if you haven't already done so (we handled step 1 above and will do step 4 together next).

5. Double check that your `dbt_project.yml` is set up correctly by running `dbt list`. You should get back a list of models and tests in your project.

## Project setup

Once your development platform of choice is set up, use the following steps to get the project ready for whatever you'd like to do with it.

1. Run `task setup`.

#### OR

1. Run `dbt build` to load the sample data into your raw schema, build your models, and test your project.

2. Delete the `jaffle-data` directory now that the raw data is loaded into the warehouse. It will be loaded into a `raw_jaffle_shop` schema in your warehouse. That both `dev` and `prod` targets are set up to use. Take a look at the `generate_schema_name` macro in the `macros` directory to if you're curious how this is done.

Have fun exploring dbt! 🎉
